---
layout: page
title: Assignments
permalink: /assignments/
order: 3
---

## Assignments

*Participation.* Your most basic assignment is to come to class
prepared. Each week you will have to read online tutorials or
documentation about the programming technique we will be learning. When
the syllabus says to "read" an assignment, that means to read the
tutorial or documentation with a text editor and terminal open, doing
your best to get the code to work. You are not expected to come to class
having mastered the topic, but you are expected to come having tried
your hand at it. No later than four hours before class, you should
e-mail the course list about one thing you think you learned and one
thing you didn't understand. I will use your e-mails to tailor my
explanations in class. Often in class, I will ask you to work your way
through some programming problem on your computer and submit your
solutions to GitHub, though these solutions will not be formally graded.
All of these kinds of participation will factor into your course
participation grade.

*Tutorial.* You will write one programming tutorial that meets the
submission guidelines for *[The Programming Historian 2][]*. This
tutorial should explain how to perform some research technique in
history, using any of the languages or technologies that we will learn.
You should post this tutorial to your own blog. After revision you may
wish to submit it to the *Programming Historian 2* to go through its
peer-review process. This assignment will be due by the end of the
semester, though you can and probably should submit it earlier.

*Lab notebook.* At the end of our data analysis section you will submit
a lab notebook in R that performs some kind of analysis of use to your
historical research. This notebook should perform an exploratory data
analysis, mining everything of possible interest from your data. For
example, you should try mapping, visual analysis, charts, and summary
statistics. This notebook should also contain prose about the historical
insights that you have learned.

*Web visualization.* You will create an online visualization in
Javascript and D3 of some of the fundamental insights gained in the lab
notebook section. This visualization will take the form of a website
with interactivity and written analysis to go along with the
visualization.

*API script*. You will submit code in Ruby which uses a web API to
gather sources into usable data.

*Omeka plugin.* You will spend the second half of the semester creating
a plugin for Omeka. This plugin's README should contain a brief essay
explaining the scholarly purpose for the code. (At your option, you may
substitute a comparably advanced program in any language for any purpose
that would be more useful for your work. For example, you could create a
web application or a WordPress plugin, or write Ruby gem, or create a
more advanced web visualization. Please make arrangements with me well
in advance.)

## Evaluation

The assignments for this course will receive these weights.

  assignment                        weight
  --------------------------------- --------
  class participation/coding        40%
  tutorial                          10%
  lab notebook in R                 10%
  web visualization in Javascript   10%
  API script in Ruby                10%
  Omeka plugin in PHP               20%

