---
layout: page
order: 2
permalink: '/assignments/'
title: Assignments
...

### Participation

Your most basic assignment is to come to class prepared. Each week you
will have to read about the programming technique we will be learning.
When the syllabus says to "read" an assignment, that means to go over
the tutorial or documentation with a text editor and terminal open,
doing your best to get the code to work. You are not expected to come to
class having mastered the topic, but you are expected to come having
tried your hand at it.

By noon on the day of class, please send a brief e-mail to the course
list about at least one thing you think you learned and one thing you
didn't understand. I will use your e-mails to tailor my explanations in
class.

### Weekly coding projects

For many classes I will ask you to work on a historical programming
problem. Your solutions should be published as a GitHub repository or
Gist before the start of class. You should come to class prepared to
talk about how you worked through the problem and (where appropriate)
what historical argument might be made from your findings.

### In-class tutorial

At our first meeting we will divvy up a list of programming techniques 
which are not on the syllabus and assign everyone a week. You will 
prepare a 40 minute lesson on how to apply the technique to be delivered 
in class.

### Written tutorial

You will write one programming tutorial that meets the submission
guidelines for *[The Programming Historian][]*. This tutorial should
explain how to perform some research technique in history, using any of
the languages or technologies that we will learn. You should post this
tutorial to your own blog. After revision you may wish to submit it to
the *Programming Historian* to go through its peer-review process.

  [The Programming Historian]: http://programminghistorian.org/submissions

### Course project and presentation

Over the course of the semester you will create some digital history
project using computer programming. (This project should be roughly the
equivalent of a seminar paper's worth of work.) This project should be
chosen in consultation with me, It might take any number of forms: a
library or plugin, a research paper backed by programming methods, a
visualization, etc. During the semester you will create a brief proposal
and set of specifications for the project. You will give a presentation
about this project at our last class meeting, and the finished project
will be due a week later.

## Evaluation

The assignments for this course will receive these weights.

  | assignment                        | weight
  | --------------------------------  | --------
  | class participation               | 20%
  | weekly coding projects            | 25%
  | in-class tutorial                 | 10%
  | written tutorial                  | 10%
  | final project presentation        | 10%
  | final project code/argument       | 25%
