---
layout: page
order: 1
title: About
...

## Course description

This class will introduce you to the rudiments of programming languages;
even more, the class will teach you how to learn whatever programming
techniques you need to solve scholarly problems. After the introduction
to programing, the course will focus on applying programmatic techniques
to historical research. Each week you will learn a new technique---such
as a visualization, mapping, network analysis, text-mining---using real
historical data to develop arguments and interpretation. By the end of
the semester you will create a programming project of your choice which
will help you in your future scholarly research. The main languages that
you will learn are [JavaScript][] (a language obligatory for the web but
useful for many applications) and [R][] (a statistical programming
language well-suited to scholarly purposes), but you are encouraged to
learn any language you like for the final project.

## Learning goals

After taking this course, you will

-   be able to apply programmatic techniques to scholarly research in
    history, especially involving data analysis;
-   understand the common concepts of computer programming across
    computer languages;
-   be able to use Javascript and R and some of their most useful
    libraries;
-   be able to read documentation for languages and libraries in order
    to teach yourself programming techniques as they become useful to
    you.

## How to succeed at this course

This course does not presume any prior experience with computer
programming. However the course does assume that you have taken Clio 1
and Clio 2, and thus possess the skills taught in those courses. This
course will be hard and unfamiliar, not least because you will be
learning new techniques at the same time that you are trying to apply
them to historical research. Here are a couple suggestions about how to
succeed at this course:

-   Come talk with me early and often. You can find me in my office at
    RRCHNM or can make an appointment; once a week is not too often to
    talk outside of class. Most of your learning will happen outside of
    class, and I will be able to help you the most if you try your hand
    at the exercises before you come, but a conversation can go a long
    way towards getting you unstuck.

-   Keep the history in mind at all times, especially how you might turn
    computer code into a historical argument. It is very difficult to
    learn to program without a genuine use for what you are trying to
    learn. Find a way that the techniques we are learning apply to your
    research, especially your dissertation research. I will provide data
    sets that you can use, but you are always welcome to substitute
    sources that are relevant to your research. The most successful
    students in this course will be those who get a head start on the
    research for their dissertations.

## What will happen in class

## A few notes

This course assumes that you are programming in a Unix-like environment,
namely some Linux distribution running natively or in a virtual machine,
or in the Unix underpinnings of Mac OS X. You're free to use Windows if
you like, but I won't be able to guide you in figuring out the
differences, and your code will have to run on my machine.

Configuration is the bane of all computer projects, and to that end all
code must run on a standard machine. This machine image will be
available to you using [Vagrant][], and you'll be able to run it as a
virtual machine on your own computer. You should test all non-trivial
code in the virtual machine before submitting it. We'll cover this in an
early class period.

To submit your code, you will need a [GitHub][] account and must let me
know your user name. (Your account can be anonymous/pseudonymous to the
world, if you wish, just not to the people in this course.) Each
assignment for the course should have its own repository (or [Gist][]
for a short assignment). If an assignment is to be graded, then the
repository should have a [tag][], `submitted`, for the version of the
assignment you wish me to grade.

This course will not teach you the tips and tricks of the innumerable
tools that surround programming, such as IDEs (Integrated Development
Environments), text editors, syntax checkers, environment managers and
so on, though I can provide suggestions if you need them. Use whatever
you want. If you don't have a preferred text editor, you could do worse
than [Sublime Text][] or [Atom][]. I prefer [Vim][].

The culture around programming can be extraordinarily generous, with
many people sharing their work and expertise for free. It can also be
extraordinarily toxic, especially for women and minorities. Part of this
course will be learning to help yourself in the culture of programming,
including indispensable sites such as [Stack Overflow][]. If you get
stuck in the more nefarious parts of the culture, come ask for help.
[This website][] from the UVA Speaking in Code summit might help too.

  [JavaScript]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript
  [R]: http://www.r-project.org/
  [Vagrant]: http://www.vagrantup.com/
  [GitHub]: https://github.com/
  [Gist]: https://gist.github.com/
  [tag]: http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Basics-Tagging
  [Sublime Text]: http://www.sublimetext.com/
  [Atom]: https://atom.io/
  [Vim]: http://www.vim.org/
  [Stack Overflow]: http://stackoverflow.com/
  [This website]: http://codespeak.scholarslab.org/
