---
layout: page
order: 10
permalink: '/policies/'
title: Policies
...

### Dates for Dropping and Adding

Please note these dates from the [academic calendar][] for dropping and
adding this course:

-   Last Day to Add: September 2, 2014
-   Last Day to Drop: September 26, 2014
-   Selective Withdrawal Period: September 29 - October 17, 2014
    (undergraduates only)

### Assignments

I may change due dates or assignments. I will always give you plenty of
notice of changes, which will always be intended for your benefit.
Students must satisfactorily complete all assignments (including
participation assignments) in order to pass this course.

### Attendance

Your attendance is expected every class meeting without exception. We
will be working closely together, so I hope you will develop a good
working relationship with everyone in the class. If you must be absent,
I request that you notify me by e-mail in advance of class meeting. Even
if you are absent, you must turn in assignments before the time when our
class meets. After the first two absences from class, the relevant
portion of your grade for the class will be lowered for each absence.

### Communications

I am always glad to meet with you in person. You can make an appointment
for office hours by e-mailing me. If none of my scheduled office hours
work for you, we can find another time that does. From time to time I
may offer online office hours. For all other communications I prefer
e-mail. I will reply to your messages within 24 hours (but never on a
Sunday). I will send official course communications to your George Mason
e-mail address, which you should check regularly. I will discuss grades
only in person.

### Privacy

You will be required to make some of your work publicly available. If
you wish, you may do so under an assumed name or user name to keep your
identity private from the public, though I and the other students in the
course will have access to your work.

### Late work

I am willing to grant extensions for cause, but you must request an
extension well in advance of the assignment's due date. For every day or
part of a day that an assignment is late, I will reduce your grade by a
step, e.g., from A to A-, from A- to B+, and so on.

### Accommodations

If you are a student with a disability and you need academic
accommodations, please see me and contact the Office of Disability
Services at 703.993.2474 or <http://ods.gmu.edu>. All academic
accommodations must be arranged through that office.

### General policies

See the [George Mason University catalog][] for general policies, as
well as the university [statement on diversity][]. You are expected to
know and follow George Mason's policies on academic integrity and the
honor code. Please ask me if you have any questions about how these
policies apply to work in this course.

### License

This syllabus and all assignments are copyrighted Â© 2014 Lincoln Mullen.
This syllabus is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License][]. You are free to use or modify this syllabus
for any purpose, provided that you attribute it to the author,
preferably at the course website.

  [academic calendar]: http://registrar.gmu.edu/calendars/fall-2014/
  [George Mason University catalog]: http://catalog.gmu.edu/
  [statement on diversity]: http://ctfe.gmu.edu/professional-development/mason-diversity-statement/
  [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
